Let's talk a bit about the alpha parameter.
So we have to calculate the outer perimeter during the iteration and Alpha is equal to 1 divided by
two times the logarithm of one of mine is the error term.
Divide by the error term and if we take a closer look at this Plaut where we have the error rate and
the alpha value we can see that if the error rate is smaller than 0.5 What does it mean that it is a
better classifier than a coin flip so a random guess basically.
So a given Ajax classifier out of value increases as the air or converges to zero.
Of course dude classifiers are given more leeway.
So this is what we have been talking about that the path of value controls the given age X we or if
Alpha is 0.
It means that we do not care about that given learner the value of alpha is great for example plus one
plus two plus three or something like this.
It means that we give more weight to this given learner.
OK so here in this region where the error rate is small the value is going to be plausible and plus
two and so on.
So we would like to give more weight to a classifier with small error rate if the error rate is 0.5
than the value of that given Ajax classifier is zero.
You may pose the question Why.
Because it is a random guess.
Basically a coin flip.
So the error rate is 0.5 it is a coin flip and we don't want our algorithm to rely on random guesses.
So we are not going to bother with classifier with error rate 0.5.
We don't want to deal with random guesses and if the error rate is greater than 0.5 as you can see the
alpha value will be smaller than 0.
What does it mean that basically we do the opposite because that's the best action we can make if we
have a classifier Wade for example a 90 percent error rate what does it mean that with 90 percent probability
the classifier is going to make bad decisions.
Of course if we do the opposite it means that the opposite of the classifier will make good decisions
with 90 percent accuracy.
So of course if the error rate is greater than 0.5 the Alpha has to be smaller than 0.
So we would like to make opposite actions.
So basically this is why we have to calculate our weight the top of this formula because this formula
makes sure that if we are dealing with Ajax classifier we'd all read smaller than 0.5 Atha is going
to be greater than zero which means that gyud classifiers are given more weight the error rate is 0.5.
We don't want to bother about that classifier.
So the path of failure is going to be zero and the error rate is greater than 0.5.
It means that the best action is to do the opposite.
So that's why the alpha value will be smaller than 0.
OK so this is why we have been discussing in the previous lecture that the outer perimeter is going
to control the H x week learners.
So Alpha has something to do with the Week learners.
OK what about the weights.
We are going to assign a given w weight to every single sampling the data set.
And of course in every iteration we have to update the weights associated to every single sample.
And this is the formula we have to use the weight in the next iteration is equal to the weight in the
previous iteration.
Now divide by Zad times an exponential function.
So each of the power of minus Alpha times h times Y.
So this is how we are today the weights in every iteration the W weights has something to do with the
dataset samples.
OK.
We set higher weights to more important samples and lower away to values still less important one.
This is what we have been discussing so that if we have the learner with some misclassify samples of
course in the next iteration we would like to focus on the misclassified items.
So we don't want to bother about correctly classified items.
That's why we are going to decrease the weights for that correctly classified items.
And we are going to increase the weight for the misclassified items.
This is how the algorithm knows that.
OK.
In the next iteration we have to deal with these values we you come up with a classification algorithm
that's able to classify correctly these data samples.
By the way this Zad makes sure that the W is a distribution.
This is what we have been discussing that some of the double use Sabai weights must be equal to one.
And that's why we have this normalization factor.
Then we have this a y x function which is basically flips the sign of the exponent if H x is wrong.
So we have to make sure that if the given sample was misclassified then we have to increase the weights.
And if the given sample would index I was classified correctly we have to decrease the weight.
And basically this is why we have this y function if age x a week learner has managed to classify the
given sample with index I correctly we have to make sure that the weight is going to be decreased.
So we have to make sure that the xponent will be smaller than zero.
So if X made a good decision then why is going to be plausible.
If Ajax made a bad decision then why X is going to be minus one.
This is how it is going to flip the sign of the xponent.
Why is it good because it makes sure to assign smaller weights to samples that are correctly classified
and a bigger weight for misclassification.
So in the next iteration the Ajax learner can focus on those samples.
We'd had your weights.
OK so what is the why function makes sure that the weights are going to be updated correctly and you
may pose the question that why do we have to include the alpha in the exponent.
Because this is how we make sure that stronger classifiers decisions are more important.
So if we could classify your misclassify as an input we do not take that as seriously as a strong classifiers
mistake who may pose a question that why.
Because if the alpha male is high it means that the error rate is low.
What does it mean that it is a strong classifier and this is how we make sure that a strong classifiers
decision are more important because we multiply the exponent by Alpha.
OK so if a classifier where the alpha is approximately 0 as you can see 0.1 or 0.2 this is a weak classifier
your error rate.
In this case we do not take it as seriously as a strong classifiers mistake.
So this is why we have to include the alpha in the xponent as well.
So this is how we can update the W weight values.
This is how we can update the alpha values.
And basically we just have to use this iterative approach in order to get the D.H. X we learners.
And with the combination of these classifiers or weak learners we are able to end up with a strong classifier
that's able to make good predictions.
For example here it is able to solve these nonlinearly separable problem.
We just have to combine extremely near classifiers this classifier this classifier and this classifier.
So this is how boosting works.
Thanks for watching.